From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes, our weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist and
Scott Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number three 80
recorded live Thursday, July 11th, 2013. Support
for Hanselman is provided by
Tellerik offering the best in
developer tools and support online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net
makers of gesture pack, how
powerful, just for recording and
recognition system for Microsoft connect
for windows developers details@gesturepak.com. In
this episode, Scott talks with
Jim Wang about the problems
in today's web development experience.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes, and I'm here
talking to Jim Wang, a
web developer. How are you?
Great, Scott, how are you?
I am, I am sad.
Oh yeah. Why? I am
sad at the state of
web development. Like we're, we're
standing on the shoulders of
giants. We have, there's an
amazing thing going on in
the web right now. And
I just feel like the
tools are failing us, like
at every stage. And I
know you're a big single
page app person. You're doing
a lot of web development.
Yeah. It's all just me.
Am I the only person
that feels this way? I
don't think you're the only
one. I think a lot
of us have just learned
to live with it. I
mean, to be honest, I,
I, you know, when you
first suggested this topic to
me, I thought, you know,
yeah. What are, what are
my pain points? And yeah.
You know, we really are
behind in terms of just
the quality, the developer experience,
you know, I've had to
work around stuff. My current
setup is basically a visual
studio and when I F
five to run my application,
I switched into whatever debugging
tools for the browser that
I'm currently using. So I'm
not sure I'm in an
integrated development experience, so to
speak, but I'm not using
a lot of the functionality.
And you know, I've tried
other editors. I've tried sublime.
I found that to be
a little too bare metal.
I really liked having keyboard
shortcuts having for, for launching
the browser and all that
other stuff. And you can
add that on to sublime
to be honest. But since,
you know, we work at
Microsoft and I use visual
studio every day. It was
easier just to work around
the problems that I was
having. Yeah. I think that
that outside the visual studio
kind of bubble, for lack
of another word, there are
people who are, you know,
really, really willing to customize
their situation. Like people will
spend a day or more
setting stuff up, getting their
sublime just right. Getting their
bash RC. Correct. Yeah, absolutely.
I think visual studio people
are kind of spoiled, you
know, they install ReSharper or
code rush or whatever, and
they hit a five and
then they use the defaults.
Right, right. Yeah. The most
I've ever done, to be
honest with you is I
go with C sharp development
settings and then I change
the settings for, for curly
braces, turn on line numbers.
And I'm pretty much good.
The one, the one interesting
thing that I picked up
from doing single page applications
and a lot of JavaScript
is now I do everything
To two spaces, four tabs
instead of four, really, which
drives the other people who
work on my projects crazy.
So I have C sharp
C sharp code that is
double-spaced for tabs. Instead of,
instead of the four you're
gonna get fired for that.
I'd love to talk clocks
a ticket. I guess I
use the web development settings
with a it's called code
only. Yep. Right. And that
basically turns off all the
toolbars gets everything out of
the way. So I'm using
visual studio with, I think
only the standard toolbar, because
as a web guy, I
want the dropdown that lets
me pick which browser I'm
going to, I'm going to
launch. Yep. And then the,
the, the feature where I
could launch multiple browsers at
once, and then what I
ended up doing is I'll
have usually Chrome and on
one Firefox on another, I
have three monitors. Right? Yep.
And then I'll have like
whatever F 12 tools I'm
using at the time. Gotcha.
And I spend a lot
of time in the Chrome
dev tools, but just depending,
right. There's a bunch of
Firefox extensions that I like
for like rulers and stuff.
Right, right. But it's pretty
straight forward, but I was
doing a spa application recently.
You actually, I should probably
show it to you sometime.
It's a one pager that
I did with a couple
of guys on, on Twitter.
Basically. It was like two
in the morning. And I
was like, I'm going to
write this app. So this
guy, Stuart back helped me
out and we got on
Skype and he did a
lot of knockout. And I
came up with the idea
and laid him and stuff
out. And I kind of
went around and we iterated
on this. It's called keys,
left.com. And it tells you
how many keystrokes are left
in your hands before you
die toys. I'm totally serious.
So the idea is that
like, why would you do
this again? Yeah. Well, the
idea was that actually, I
mean, me and David Edwards had
the idea on the way
back from build. Okay. Because
we're coming back from build
and we haven't done any
email in a week and
we're like, Oh, this is
gonna suck all these emails.
And then I'm like, and
I, and I said, that
thing that I always say,
which is, well, I've only
got so many keystrokes left
in my hands. I don't
want to give the gift
of my keystrokes to all
of these random people who've
emailed me. So what I
do is Hansel bot and
it's just like, and it's
like an auto reply for
all. Your emails are really
rude though, but you're right.
That's an intelligent auto reply,
right? So this is not
your typical auto reply. It
goes through and filters through,
you know, people, you know,
certain things that, you know,
it looks for patterns kind
of generates a random thing.
I'm telling you, people will
pay money for that service.
Everyone's email service like outlook
or Gmail has been trying
to do that for years.
And they just never work.
You know, what I've heard
of though is you can,
you can pay someone, you
know, presumably in a third
world country to run errands
for you. Right. And so
you can also pay them
until you don't do stuff
like pay bills. I mentioned
you, you could farm out
your email. Yeah. There's, there's
different sites for that. You
have the idea of the
thing is rather than answering
a technical question via email,
I won't put two, five,
two thousand five thousand, 10,000 into that. Right.
Because it's a waste. One
person emails me. I don't
know you, but I'll write
a blog post about it.
Yep. And then I'll send
them a link to that
blog post. So then we
said, well, gosh, how many
keystrokes are left in your
hands? Well, you know, you're
35 years old and you
went, you, you type this
fast, you have X number
of billion keystrokes. So then
we went and did all
the math, you have this
many novels right. Left in
your hands. You have this
many emails to your boss.
What do you want to
be spending your time on,
you know, write novels, emails,
love letters. Tweets depends. So
it's really more of an
educational thing like to think
about it's, it's your, it's
your gift. You're going to
give the people the gift
of your keystrokes. So I
was going to write the
whole thing in web pages
or PHP or something. And
I was going to basically
have a post-bacc cause I
was going to have them
fill out the little form
of two things, your age
and your words per minute.
And then I would do
the calculations on the service
side. And Damien's like, that's
just stupid. Right? This is
clearly. Yeah. But it's, it's
a, it's a, it's a
generational thing. Right. I spent
10 years doing that. Right.
And he's like, get your
head in the game. This
is clearly, you know, knockout.
So, so Stuart and I
did this thing in knockout
and it's very verbose. Like
there's a lot of code
there. Yup. And a lot
of it's just set up,
but at the same time,
the result, and you can
see it@keysleft.com. It's really amazing.
He even, he even added
a timer that updates one
number that has the key
strokes count down. So after
you type it in they're
decaying. Right. Gotcha. Yeah. That's
really just to show you
that, But, and then the
entire page Updates itself, right.
Bugging this thing is just
a nightmare it's console dot
log. And it's we had
to end up putting in
a knockout specific Chrome extension.
None of the objects look
like what I would think
of as like, when I
think of objects, I think
of data structures, but JavaScript,
debuggers want you to look
at all the methods that
have been, you know, bolt,
you know, spot welded onto
the side of the job.
Right, right. And that's also
a side effect of knockout
decorating your objects, given the
way that it does the
observables. So for folks not
familiar with knockout, the way
it works is you have
an object that you want
to listen for, changes on.
And so the way NACA
does that, it is, it
attaches a bunch of event
listeners and properties. And so
it can detect changes. And
then you get nice things
like dependency tracking, let's say
one observable property changes, and
you want to be notified
or you want to subscribe
to that change. You're able
to do that. And that
enables you to build a
lot of really cool scenarios.
But like you're saying, it
ends up making your objects
look really ugly. Right. And
so debugging is a pain.
The other thing that you're,
you're probably gonna run into
is that once you start
building a really large site,
because you're creating all these
additional properties and methods on
the objects, you're going to
start to run into performance
issues. Now, to be honest,
I've heard that I haven't
really had an issue. I
have maybe I haven't built
a website of that scale,
but it's often cited. Yeah.
It's often cited as a
reason. It's like, Oh, that's
why I want to go
to angular, which doesn't necessarily
have this problem because they
solve the problem a different
way. They do straight string
comparison. Right. Then this example,
I've got two texts Boxes
feeding into, I think maybe
12 gen, you know? Oh,
well butts, outputs, I guess.
Gotcha. Put it right. Yep.
Yep. And it's really brilliant.
I mean, it's just a
perfect single page app. I'm
waiting for this thing to
get on hacker news just
so I can watch it
scale. Cause as I like
to say, it does nothing.
And if you do nothing,
you can scale infinitely. Right,
Right. It doesn't get saved
Of anything. Yeah. So, so
doing it, not, that was
a great idea, but I
tried to do it in
both visual studio, 2012 in
2013 with the new tools
and in sublime and really
no one was there to
help me, nothing made it
better. Like, you know, JS
lint at the command line
was helpful. Some of the
IntelliSense in visual studio was
okay. Some of the autocomplete
not really intelligent, but auto-complete
stuff and sublime was useful.
Yeah. But it's really back
to the wild West, you
know, I guess I'm spoiled
in a static typing kind
of a way. Yeah. Yeah.
In fact, I find that
people who love static typing
tend to gravitate towards angular
more because they're familiar with
it. Like they hear the
term dependency injection like, Oh
cool. You know, angular does
dependency injection. And you know,
you can define, you know,
this is also the TypeScript
thing, right. Where you're, where
you're starting to get into
the field of I'm defining,
you know, strongly type properties,
strongly type, sorry, Sterling type
classes. And you know, I've
got inheritance and polymorphism and
I'm doing all these sorts
of things just to try
to make Java script into
a strongly typed language, which
really it, isn't not to
say I'm dumping on TypeScript.
I think it's great for
type checking I'm yet to
be kind of, I got
to go watch, Andrew's talk
at build and, and figure
out, you know, what the,
what the real value prop
is beyond that. Because I
haven't really built and built
a really large scale application
that can take advantage of,
I think some of the
benefits that it has to
offer People to people in
public, like the difference between
TypeScript and JavaScript and where
it fits. I bring in,
I bring in coffee script.
And the example I always
give is that coffee script
is what Ruby people wish
JavaScript looked like. Right, right.
Risk friendly. It has white
space. It's kind of, it's
almost like a haiku. It
has very expressive and camel
style, clean lines. Exactly. And
then TypeScript is what a
C-sharp person wishes the script
looks like. Yeah. You know,
and that makes sense. But
maybe actually take a moment
and back up and juxtapose
the difference in thinking between
knockout, which is an MVVM
and angular or Ember, which
is more of an MVC
on the client to those
who maybe not be familiar
with those things. Yeah. Sorry.
So basically, you know, knockout
is the MVVM Silverlight model
of, of model binding. So
for folks who are really
familiar with, with Silverlight and
how that works, knockout is
going to be a great
natural transition for you. Whereas
with, with angular, things are
more declarative. So you end
up defining a model and
then you end up having
to, to namespace your application.
So, you know, these things
start to sound a little
more, more server side. And
then at that point, you
know, angular figures out what
your model is like, and
it's able to do string
comparisons to detect changes that
update your view and basically
how MVC works. Right? So
you have a model, you
have a view, and then
there's a controller that you
initialize and hook up to,
to be able to listen
for those changes and make
those comparisons. So it's just
a different way to get
the same thing done because
you're doing simple string comparisons
instead of doing event listeners,
which is kind of a
cleaner, more, I guess, programming
friendly type of way, but
you know, string comparisons of
brute force, they end up
being a little more performance
depending on browser. But once
again, I think the way
I think about it is
I wouldn't choose angular just
because, Oh, you want to
have, you know, you want
to build a giant, massive,
scalable application. I would wait
until, you know, you really
have some concrete data about
your specific application before, before
going one way or another,
because you're going to save
a lot in depth time.
If you know, Silverlight for
knockout. Also one thing you
actually, that you didn't mention
is the, the knockout tooling
inside of visual studio. How
did you like that? Yeah.
So that's one big advantage.
I think in my mind
of using knockout versus angular,
because I'm a V S
developer I'm going to get,
in fact, it even works
for custom bindings, right? So
if you define your own,
basically your own custom functionality
inside of knockout, it also
lights up with that. All
the tooling works, you get
IntelliSense, you get highlighting. And
so, yeah, I'd love to
hear your thoughts on that.
I got the, we got
the highlighting in the syntax
kind of layout. So we
could, we could tell what
was knocked out at what
wasn't, because when you're in
a, in a page, particularly
when that's a razor page,
when you're really mixing, you
know, you could literally mix
CSS, JavaScript, HTML, and knock
out bindings and even like
a template like a mustache
or a handlebar template all
on one page. Yeah. You're
really a polyglot programmer in
one, on one file. In
this case, it was just
because there was no back
end. It was just HTML
and knockout. So there was
some IntelliSense, but that, wasn't
what I needed. Like IntelliSense
wasn't the pain. Right, right.
Without that being a lot.
So I hear what you're
saying. I think it's great
that that's in visual studio,
but it was the, the
lack of this idea of
like, what's going on. And
I think this is where
they say like IntelliSense rots
the brain where this, this
applicant, this silly little application
needed to have a planning
involved. You know what I
mean? This wasn't the kind
of thing you just start
with. Right. Right. Yeah. And
even now it still has
some really interesting and subtle
bugs, for example, on some
browsers, we've got it set
up where knockout is automatically
adding commas for like 1 billion.
So it's like one comma,
zero, zero, zero commenters or
zero. Gotcha. Other browsers, for
some reason that culture information
is not coming across. Interesting.
And just ended up with
just the number. So there's,
there's a little bit of
magic that's going on. I'm
not quite clear about, and
right. And this is, this
is what happens also when
you only test in Chrome.
Yeah. Yeah. You get, you
know what I mean? You
test in the browser and
then, then you're like, Oh
yeah, well it Works. And
it does. Yeah. But now
I'm getting there now there's
the million of Little subtle
details. Like, you know, it
works on an iPhone, but
it doesn't really look great
Exactly. That iPhone, but yeah.
How do I test that?
Like, where's my iPhone Chrome,
you know, iPhone developer tool.
Right, right. Yeah. I mean,
it is, it is definitely
a challenge when, you know,
I think we've, we've come
full circle. We've said, Hey,
we solved the, you know,
the browser testing problem. You
can just use jQuery or,
you know, we've got these
frameworks and stuff you can
depend on that. Let's just
solve the problem. But it
really doesn't at the end
of the day, it's your
experience? That matters. Right. It's
one thing for it to
work like you point out.
But it's another thing for
the experience just to be
great on your device, you
know, and I guess the
one, the nice thing is
that we're starting to see,
I guess some browsers go
away, which is less test
coverage. You know, honestly that
less time you're going to
have to spend, to validate
those browsers. As far as
major browser engines are concerned
with, you know, Firefox 22
came out today, we have
version tests, we have more
version, more testing on versions
of the same. Yup. Then
than the different browsers themselves,
such as themselves. Yeah. Yeah.
So, so, you know, I
mean, maybe that's one thing
that's a plus for IIE,
I guess, or plus for
Chrome, depending on which camp
you're in, you know, there's
a major versions for IIE
and then for Chrome, you
don't have to worry about
it. It's just latest for
the most part. That's true.
I will say though, that
for the most part, if
you write clean Code and
I think that this, this
there's a Renaissance in clean
code right now when, when
Jen yang and I redesigned
my blog and my website,
it's pretty much worked everywhere
and pretty much looks okay.
Yeah. And we really didn't
test anywhere, et cetera, And
Chrome really. Wow. That's awesome.
Really, just because we limited
the number of CSS selectors
that we did, we did
limited the number of our
markup is, you know, other
than some of the historical
Schmidt's that at my blog
has we've basically, I think
we've probably got like dibs
H one through H three
P and pre like, that's
pretty much it. Right. There's
not a lot going on
there. Yeah. And that's, that's
kind of an interesting balance,
right. Because you're being very
conscious about that. Right. Whereas
I would argue, it's like,
it's kind of nice to
be able to use the
new stuff. Right. I'll give
you an example. I ran
into recently. So I'm building
a, a media site that
requires me to upload a
video file. So I'm like,
Oh, you know, what a
great way to do this
is I'll just knew what
my bootstrap site, there's like,
nice progress bars that are
styled and I'll use the
HTML five file API And
drop, and then you can
get the automatic progress bar
up. Right. Right. And I'm
also able just to do
file upload from the browser.
Right. Because I can get
that, that, that file object
off of the form. Right.
And so this works great.
As long as, you know,
you only testing Chrome, as
soon as you go to
a browser that doesn't support
HTML five file. Now you're
falling back to something like
flash or you know, or
silver light. And so it's
a, it's a big pain
cause you're like, Hey, I
want to use the new
stuff. But then I basically
doubled my work now because
I could have just implemented
the old thing and be
done and, you know, have
been done with it as
opposed to, you know, The
file upload is such a
huge problem. There's actually a
startup. I forgot the name,
Name of it, but I
really it's like file Upload.io,
I'm guessing. Hmm. But basically
what it is, I have
to look it up and
I'll put it in the
show notes for those who
are listening. Sounds good. But
it's a Y Combinator or
commentator, depending on who you
ask. And basically it's like
common file dialogues for the
web. Like their argument is
we're going to just abstract
the whole picking of a
file away. And would they?
Thank you. Thank you. Yeah.
I want that. And I
mean, they allow you to
know Only choose files off
your disc, but they'll integrate
into Dropbox. Oh, really? Drive.
Right. So you just like
a file is a file.
So it's a common file
Exactly. For the web. And
this is, think about that.
This is yet another example
where something's broken. So someone
is going to use the
opportunity to kind of putty
over or spackle over that
problem. Just like jQuery, spackled
over browser differences. Yeah. If
you've ever tried to style
an input type equals file
and make that consistent across
all browsers, do you understand
why I want this yesterday?
Well, or like calendars, just
try to get calendars. Right?
There's an opportunity for someone
to solve that problem. Right.
If anyone's, if anyone's listening
closely, one of my, one
of my interview questions that
I use is implement a
calendar, which calendar. Exactly. So,
you know, it has two
things. Number one, are you,
are you willing to drill
down to solve a problem?
And number two, can you
actually solve the problem? So
always, always interesting. So the,
the, the file upload stuff,
you ended up doing what,
like I actually funny story
before he answered that yeah.
This podcast itself gets uploaded
with a Silverlight control. Oh
really? And because it's the
easiest and most it'll work
anywhere because I always find
myself all over the place
and I've got a file
to upload and these are
big files. Right. These are,
you know, five, 600 megs.
Yeah. I don't really want
to just select them and
hit post. Sure. I need
auto renew. Right? Yep. Yep.
Right now Carl Franklin, my producer
is working on rewriting that
in HTML five. So I
don't need to install server
light. Cool. He's having some
trouble, Right? Yeah. File upload
a whole Hard problem to
solve. It seems easy. But
you had in things like
auto resume and making it
work anywhere. Right, right. Yeah.
It's definitely, it's definitely an
interesting problem to solve. I'll
be a hundred percent honest
with you. Your, this might
be a little disappointing, but
here's what I did. I
contracted out a vendor company
to deliver me a file
upload that basically was compatible
with HTML five and had
a Silverlight fall back. Cause
I didn't want to go
implement my Silverlight uploader. Well,
and that's also, you know,
generally speaking, I found tons
of controls online that do
this for you. They fall
back to flash. I mean,
depending on what your, your
standards are, some of those
may be suitable, us being
Microsoft and us having to
ship this. We had to
go and build our own
Well. And you know, that's
the other thing, that's the
silly part of the web
that hasn't been fixed yet
is like clipboard APIs, right?
Yeah. We have our own,
we have one of our
own of those as well.
Right? Like you look at
like Bitly, right? Just for
a Bitly shortly. They use
a flash fallback when they
can't access your, and it's
always this little one. I
know this actually, because I
run Slash block. Oh, gotcha.
Yeah. Flash and server light
and generally just makes things
better. And then you'll, you'll
visit a site and you
go, what's that little eight
pixel by eight pixel square
there that's gray with an
international. No, over it. Oh,
that's that site's little clipboard
deal. Right, right. Implement that.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, How
do we make this better
though? I mean like, there's,
there's a couple of different
scenarios. There's the big IDE
like the visual studio IDE
on one end on the
other end, you've got your
vis and your victim's and
your, and your lightweight texts.
People who do things there
and in shell scripts. And
then in the middle somewhere,
you've got sublime with package
control and package installation. You've
got Adobe brackets. You've got
now media or there's there's
cloud nine. So people are
talking about doing an IDE
entirely in JavaScript. Brackets is
a great example where it's
in JavaScript, but it looks
like an app, right. It's
actually wrapped in a, a
windows app. Gotcha. Yeah. I
mean, there's, there's definitely a
variety of choice. I mean,
at the end of the
day, I don't think there's,
there's a perfect solution. I
actually, when I do node
programming, I switch over to,
to sublime and I just
do command line because for
me, the nice thing about
no Pope programming is I
can go across plat. Right?
So it's the exact same
thing, you know, I'm using
good, I'm using sublime. It
works on a Mac. It
works on my PC. It's
the same development experience everywhere.
And so when I'm, when
I'm doing that, I do
tend to switch back to
something a little more bare
metal only because you know,
I'm losing out on, I'm
not losing out on any
tooling benefits that I would
have had, let's say in
visual studio, Well, wouldn't an
argument then be if your
goal is cross platform and
you're doing work in node
than to use something like
cloud nine or to use
brackets or something that's written
in JavaScript. I mean, I
believe that sublime is written
in C, but it's a
cross platform C yep. But
arguably machines are fast enough
and JavaScript is fast enough.
Now that an editor written
in JavaScript works just fine.
Does that mean that apps
written in JavaScript or are
going to be just better?
You know, I think, I
think we're on our way
there. I don't know if
we're completely there yet. I
think there's still something to
be said for, and let's
say for lack of a
better term, a somewhat offline
development experience. And generally speaking,
you know, I have used
cloud nine. I really love
their tooling. They actually have
great, no debugging tools, which
is something that's a little
difficult to set up on
your own. It takes some
there, the open source projects,
node inspector that used to
support it have kind of
been deprecated and you have
to find your own alternatives.
The main thing is the
main issue I have is,
is twofold. The first is
performance. At the end of
the day, it's, it's close.
It is pretty performance. It's
not slow by any means,
but it's not as fast
as, as a, you know,
a native, native editor like
sublime would be right. Like
something like brackets where it's
JavaScript, but it's local, there
is an offline experience. So
I mean, that, that happens
as well. And even like
the Azure command line tools
are written in JavaScript, there
are node, but people who
write them don't know that,
you know what I'm saying?
Like, there's, there are starting
to be a proliferation of
command line tools written in
JavaScript as well. And then
you've got people writing windows
eight apps in JavaScript, I
guess the mail app in
windows eight is written in
JavaScript. You can't really tell
though, like how would I
know that? Right. I know
that cause someone told me.
Yeah, yeah, exactly. I think
that's, that's I think it
depends on your, in your,
on your runtime, right? Like
with the mail app, that's
going to windows RT. Right?
So at the end of
the day, it's executing, you
know, natively in inside of
the, the windows environment. Whereas
let's say you're using cloud
nine while your execution environment
could be Chrome. It could
be IAE, right. Depending on
how the engine performs, depending
on what you have available
at the time, you're going
to get variances in your
experience. Right. But brackets is
going to be chromium and,
and that's interesting. Yeah. That's
really interesting idea of like,
well, let's just ship our
runtime with us. Right. So
then you've got other runtimes
to think about, right. There's
other languages. And if I
can bring a runtime down,
like imagine I'm just kind
of brainstorming here, but like
imagine a.net that came down
with the app itself, like
a little tiny.net. Right. Cause
that's kind of what would
V8 is, right? Yeah. It's
this little runtime that could,
Yeah. It can be private
As opposed to one that's
running in like C program
files that I have to
update every three minutes. Like
Java, like Java update. Yeah.
29. Right? Yeah. And a
big component of that too
is I guess what enables
that is having a good
package management system, right? Like
NPM or, or new get
for folks who don't know
either one it's the equivalent
in node and equal and,
and done. Right. Right. Whether
it be gems or whether
there's there's development level, package
management, like NPM and nougat.
And then there's a more
kind of system level. Like
VA like, like, like, like,
like apt get and co
you know what I'm saying?
Like updating windows itself or
chocolatey, I guess, is the
equivalent now open source windows.
One of the things that
we, we should go back
to was what, what kinds
of tooling could make web
development better for everyone? Like,
there's the new, I guess
they call it browser link
is what they told me
to call it in the
keynote. But we think of
it as code named artery.
Right. And this is Mads
Christianson and friends kind of
communication between the ID and
the browser. Yeah. And we're
going to go and talk
to other people about like,
letting them implement that. Like
that's not something that should
be specific to visual studio
that could be in brackets
or that could be in
media or that could be
in supply or someone like
a code rush or a
ReSharper could do that as
well. And I was talking
to Paul Irish from Google
at the build conference. Like
I imagined that I would
want an experience where I
could be in Chrome or
IE or Firefox change the
Dom. Yep. Get it looking
the way I wanted it.
And then somehow say back.
Yup. You know what I
mean? Like, cause this is
how you Right. CSS now,
right. You Around in the
visual editor. Yup. And then
you go back and kind
of copy paste or somehow
get those changes back into
the CSS. Yeah. That's that's
in fact that's like the
dream, right? I mean, you
literally just want to fiddle
around and then say, say
persist. And once you have
that link between the browser
and the IDE, I think
a lot of those things
become possible through, through extending
on the, I guess the
base platform of, of browser
link. Right. You can enable
a lot of these really
cool scenarios besides the, just,
Hey, refresh my page. Right.
I think even cooler would
be if everything just live
updated. Right. So let's say,
I'm, let's say I'm in
CSS, you know, I'm editing
stuff in Chrome. And then
I've got a couple other
browsers open. Well now, because
you have the link, not
only between that browser and
the IDE, but the ID
is connected to the other
browsers that are open. You
can actually see all your
CSS changes, live in the
different browsers as you're making
them. So if something goes
wrong, you see it right
away. You don't end up
too far down the wrong
path. I showed a demo
where we were doing live
reload. Right. And there's been
live reload tools forever. Yeah.
And the demo that we
showed isn't about the live
reload feature. It's about the
real time communication. So if
I could keep the Dom
in sync without reloading, and
then I could have things
like a scrolling, dynamic scrolling
where I'm scrolling and it's
doing that everywhere. Mads demoed,
I'm filling out forms on
multiple browsers at the same.
Right. Right. Well, yeah, really,
really cool scenarios. I think
they, they alleviate a lot
of pain points for developers
who are conscious of the
issues they're going to run
into later on down the
line with the different browsers.
I think you'll find a
lot of people just do
one browser, right? Like you
say, you know, the whole,
the whole dev testing Chrome.
So it doesn't really like,
I think what's interesting is
to talk about, you know,
what kind of problems does
it solve in that scenario?
Right. You know, the fact
you are going to get
the persisting back. Right. Which
is great. So you get
to play in the browser
tools and then persist back
CSS changes. That's obviously a
great benefit. You're going to
get the push the other
way for, for automatic refresh
and everything else. But I
think, you know, we've built
the platform and now it's
just time to, you know,
open it up and see
what the, what the community
creates. Cause I think the,
the main scenarios that are,
that are really appealing to
me are when you are
looking at multiple browsers. Right.
Right. At the same time,
I also think though that
there I'm surprised that tools
like glimpse haven't taken off
more like the, the, you
know, I think the guys
that built glimpse have made
a client side all in
Java script, web developer, or
Chrome tools, like experience with
a backend connection to the
server that is really unparalleled
because they're looking at things
in a holistic view that
there's not like the profiling
that occurs in the server
and then a bright line
and the profile that occurs
on the client. Right. You
know, they put those timelines
together in one place and
they look at the time
to first bite kind of
like full life cycle. I'd
like to see that in
my browser, like, it's great
that they did it in
JavaScript, but their dashboard is
their dashboard. Like why doesn't
my browser also know about
my server and what's going
on in the backend? You
know what I'm saying? Yeah.
No, absolutely. What if we
pushed some of the profiling
information from visual studio or
from node or from whatever,
all the way up into
the browser and then gave
that information to the browser
and told me, am I
spending my time on the
right stuff? Yeah. You know,
I could be off here,
micro benchmarking, little details of
CSS selectors or, or how
stuff got rendered, but I
really should be spending my
time on this end, plus
one data query on the
back end. That's just killing
me. Right, right. Right. I
mean, that'd be really cool.
Like if you could have
almost like a white light
alive, why slow type of
experience that, that just ties
both the client and the
server together. I mean, Mads
does a popular talk where
he goes over. It's like,
Hey, how to optimize your
web application, which most people
are doing after the fact.
Right. But I mean, if
you do it after the
fact you went into issues
like, okay, now I'm going
to go and combine and
minify my, my CSS and
my JavaScript. Oh great. Now
I uncovered an issue that,
you know, I really should
have been debugging right earlier
on when I'm not in,
in crunch time. Exactly. Exactly.
Yeah. Did you see his
web dev web developer checklist?
Yes, definitely a great site.
I mean, and in fact
he's talk is, is based
off of going through that
checklist. It's a really great
talk. He's done it. A
couple of conferences. The one
I know of for sure
is a tech days, Europe
in a, in Belgium. So
the recordings for that are,
are on channel nine, but
it's a very popular talk
and Mads is a great
speaker. So I highly encourage
people to go check that
out. A lot of great
tips for making your asp.net
website run a lot faster,
a lot smoother. Right. And
he addresses a lot of
the common problems that you're
going to see. And he
actually built a, a PLA
browser plugin, a Chrome plugin
that will run those checks
as you visit from page
to page as you go
from site to site. So
it's, it is a wide
slow, but from a web
developer's perspective about what did
you remember your microformats? Did
you remember your meadow? It's
a, it's more of a
checklist as it is a,
a performance tool. Very cool.
I actually did not know
that we made, we made
it. So if you visit
web developer checklist IC in
Chrome, it'll advertise. Gotcha. Cool.
Yeah. I'll check that out.
Well, thanks for talking to
me today, Jim. I appreciate
it. I had it. I
had a good time, Scott.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.